# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
In the property.rb file we create the class, using it in the console.rb file much like a runner file.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
In the save method

sql = "INSERT INTO properties
    (
      address,
      value,
      bedrooms,
      build
    )
    VALUES
    (
      $1,$2,$3,$4
    )
    RETURNING id"

    and then

    db.prepare("save", sql)

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
Any time property# is followed by a method that edits the database: save, delete or update.

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
SQL already generates an id when adding a new row, therefore redundant.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
The table that is shown when you create your database in the properties.sql file shows an id column, therefore when generated and inspected using pry you can see the id assigned.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
when the first object is added to the database there are no id's in the table, stops an error.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
applying to single rows(instance methods) or mulitiple(class methods).

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
Methods using the pg gem?   @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i
 the id instance variable is saved as an integer.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
To stop SQL injections like hacking through user inputs.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
find_by_id uses the id of property 2
find_by_address uses the VARCHAR or string input

Q11. What are their return values?
A class or when looking in the database, a single row. I think.
